BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS
AN ASPIRATIONAL STORE OF VALUE
JULY 2020, RIA BHUTORIA, DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

2

INTRODUCTION

At Fidelity Digital Assets, we have conversations with investors at distinct stages in their digital asset
journey – investors who are proactively working on their investment thesis, seeking validation of their
thesis or have yet to embark on the process. In
response to the range of investors in different
stages, we are compiling a series of reports

“Bitcoin is the most significant

to examine the perspectives that are driving

innovation in finance since the

interest and investment in bitcoin today and

Medicis invented double-entry

those that may evolve and gain traction in the

accounting.”

future. In doing so, we hope to help investors

BRIAN KELLY, BKCM

establish a comprehensive evidence-based
thesis and understanding, especially as
bitcoin becomes increasingly integrated with
traditional markets and portfolios.

Bitcoin is many things to many people – why people choose to own hold bitcoin depends on their
circumstances and views of what bitcoin is today and what it could become in the futurei. These views
have been the subject of misunderstanding, confusion and debate. Historically, such debates have
revolved around whether bitcoin, the native asset, is a store of value, medium of exchange, alternative
asset, all of the above, or none of the above. Additionally, it is still undetermined whether the
underlying blockchain is best used to facilitate wholesale clearing and settlement, consumer payments
or the anchoring and timestamping of arbitrary data.
The truth is, as the ecosystem matures, Bitcoin may simultaneously serve many functions – either

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

foundationally or through incremental layers. One of the beautiful things about Bitcoin is that its
success is not predicated on serving a singular purpose.
In this piece, we will focus on the view that Bitcoin is an aspirational store of value. We explore the
inherent characteristics that position Bitcoin to fulfill this role in the future, consider whether it is being
used in this way today, and discuss factors that may drive greater demand for such utility.
In conducting research for this report, we interviewed a few of the top investors and thinkers in the
industry and incorporated their investment perspectives. A special thank you to Brian Kelly, Brian Estes,
John Vincent, Benson Durham, Roberto Perli, Dan Morehead, John Pfeffer and Nic Carter for sharing
their thoughts on the topic.

KEY HIGHLIGHTS
Many investors consider bitcoin to be an aspirational store of value in that it has the properties of a
store of value but has yet to be widely accepted as such.
The silver lining of bitcoin’s volatility, at least in the early days, is that it is a catalyst that attracts
attention, development and innovation.
Scarcity is the key characteristic cited in reference to a good store of value as it is essential
for protecting against the depreciation of real value in the long run. One of bitcoin’s most novel
innovations is its unforgeable digital scarcity.
Bitcoin’s scarcity was coded into the protocol when it was created. The independence of the
monetary policy is enforced by the decentralized network of computers supporting the network and
proof-of-work.
The unknown consequences of record low interest rates, unprecedented levels of global monetary
and fiscal stimulus and deglobalization are all adding fuel to the fire of awareness and adoption.
Longer-term drivers include “slow and steady” inflation and the great wealth transfer to a
millennial demographic that has a favorable opinion on digital assets.

3

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

4

AN ASPIRATIONAL STORE OF VALUE
Bitcoin can be described as an aspirational store of value – creating value as it matures into a store
of value. An analogy is that investing in bitcoin today is akin to investing in Facebook when it had 50
million users with the potential to grow to the more than 2 billion users it has today. This is driven by
the idea that bitcoin offers asymmetric upside. If
bitcoin is widely adopted by retail and institutional
investors as a store of value, the upside may be
substantial relative to the initial upfront investment.
Today, bitcoin is relatively nascent and has narrow
base demand compared to a global store of wealth
such as gold. Stakeholder perception of its value and
potential is also still evolving. However, the rationale
of investors for establishing exposure now is that it

“It might make sense just to get
some in case it catches on. If
enough people think the same
way, that becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy.”
SATOSHI NAKAMOTO

will be a much larger market if it is widely used as a
store of value in the future.
One of the key arguments against bitcoin as a store of value today is its volatility. Bitcoin holders
counter with the idea that the trajectory of a new asset from negligible awareness and adoption to a
global store of value is unlikely to be linear. A different perspective is that many participants initially
learn about bitcoin because of its volatility. As new participants conduct further study, perceptions
often shift to focus less on short-term performance and more on the long-term value proposition.
Upward volatility also attracts investment, development and innovation. Cycles in the industry start
with an increase in the price of digital assets like bitcoin, leading to new attention through discussion
in news and social media, leading to an inflow of talent culminating in new products, projects and
infrastructure and a maturation of the industry relative to the previous cycle.

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

5

Bitcoin’s volatility may always remain elevated relative to traditional assets as volatility is a side effect
of bitcoin’s perfectly inelastic supply and of a
borderless, relatively intervention-free market. Over

“Because bitcoin is a liquid
market open 24 hours a day, 7
days a week, when people need
liquidity, bitcoin is there to clear
those trades. It clears properly

time, volatility should continue to decline relative to
current levels as narratives converge, base demand
rises, activity on institutional platforms expands and
sophisticated investment trading and investment
products emerge.

and offers a pure market all the

Bitcoin’s potential as a store of value can be

time but is also accompanied by

framed by comparing it to other investable assets

higher volatility. You have to be

that investors use to store value, as shown in the

willing to pay that price to own

table below. To achieve considerable status, more
investors need to become knowledgeable about

such an asset.”
BRIAN ESTES, OFF THE CHAIN CAPITAL

bitcoin’s inherent properties and determine that the
benefits of storing at least some value in bitcoin are
superior to the opportunity costs of storing value
in a different medium. In the sections below, we

discuss the leading factors that investors are considering when making an investment in bitcoin.

Asset

Market value

Bitcoin Share

Bitcoin

$172 billion

–––

Facebook

$684 billion

25.1%

Gold

$11 trillion

1.6%

Stock Markets

$89 trillion

0.2%

Global Debt

$253 trillion

0.1%

Global Real Estate

$281 trillion

0.1%

­

­

Source: Messari (Jul 2020), Yahoo Finance (Jul 2020), Visual Capitalist (May 2020)

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

6

WHAT MAKES BITCOIN APPEALING AS A POTENTIAL
STORE OF VALUE
Bitcoin’s digital scarcity
A robust store of value asset retains purchasing power over long periods of time. An emerging store
of value grows purchasing power until it stabilizes. The key characteristics that are cited in reference
to good stores of value are scarcity, portability, durability and divisibility. The most important of these
attributes is arguably scarcity, which is essential for protecting against the depreciation of real value in
the long run. Scarcity means there is a limited quantity of the asset in question, more cannot be easily
created, and it is impossible to counterfeit.
One of bitcoin’s most novel innovations is
its unforgeable digital scarcity. Investors
believe this property is foundational in
understanding and appreciating bitcoin.
Before bitcoin, multiple innovators made
important contributions in the quest to achieve
digital scarcity, but were unsuccessful in

“Most people in the world don’t yet
see bitcoin as digital gold. As soon as
people see it in a different way, the
price will adjust”
JOHN PFEFFER, PFEFFER CAPITAL LP

enforcing it. Computer data has always been
ephemeral and shareable, at least as far back
as Larry Tesler’s invention of copy, cut and
paste functionality in the early 1970s. In more modern times, copying and sharing files has become a
ubiquitous and integral feature of the internet.
Despite efforts at limiting the sharing of certain types of files (e.g. the development of Digital Rights
Management (DRM) technology to track files and make them difficult to copy), creating unforgeable
digital scarcity had remained elusive until 2009 when Bitcoin went live. In inventing Bitcoin, Satoshi
Nakamoto borrowed concepts from prior efforts but also addressed previously unsolved problems,
such as the double spending problem, using a clever combination of computing, cryptography, game

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

7

theory and incentives to establish a decentralized protocol that enforces a fixed issuance schedule.
The bitcoin supply is perfectly inelastic and is not susceptible to supply shocks. Supply does not
respond to changes in production capacity (i.e. greater hash power) in response to heightened
demand driving prices higher. Even gold, which has been used as a store of value for millennia, is not
immune to supply shocks. While the ability for increased production in response to an increase in
demand is limited, gold is not perfectly inelastic.
Rising prices both motivate existing bitcoin mining operations to become more efficient and attract
new mining operations, but the increased hash power supporting the network cannot affect supply.
Bitcoin accomplishes this through its difficulty adjustment. The hash rate supporting bitcoin rises
as miners join
the network or as

“You don’t need to be a PhD to understand that

existing miners

the number of dollars just doubled whereas the

upgrade their mining

BTC supply just halved.”
JOHN VINCENT, WAKEM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

hardware to more
efficient versions.
Simultaneously, the
difficulty of mining
also rises (or falls) to

ensure that block production occurs every ten minutes, on average. The adjustment mathematically
regulates the supply of bitcoin.
Bitcoin is released approximately every ten minutes via block rewards paid to miners. This block
reward halves every 210,000 blocks until the amount of bitcoin in circulation reaches 21 million. This
fixed total supply is hard coded into the protocol and cannot be changedii. The third halving occurred
in May 2020, resulting in a 50% decline in the block reward from 12.5 to 6.25 and a reduction in the
rate of annual issuance from over 3.5% to under 2% - an interesting juxtaposition at a time when
central banks globally started to unleash unprecedented and unlimited levels of monetary stimulus,
which we expand on below.

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

8

25M

100%

20M

80%

15M

60%

10M

40%

5M

20%
0%

Annual Issuance Rate

0

Total Supply

Source: Alex Thorn (Avon Ventures), May 2020

The stock-to-flow ratio (stock divided by flow) is a metric commonly used to quantify the scarcity, or
hardness, of commodities. Stock is the existing supply of a commodity less the portion of supply that
has been consumed or destroyed. Flow is the annual incremental production of new units. Together,
the stock-to-flow ratio measures how many years of production are required to achieve the existing
level of stock.
Commodities with a stock that is difficult to double due to a low rate of production relative to existing
supply have historically served as superior stores of value. Such commodities are largely used for
investment purposes, and occasionally industrial uses. On the other hand, consumable commodities
that are susceptible to large increases in supply, are less effective in storing value.
In the Bitcoin Standard, Saifedean Ammous adapted stock-to-flow to compare bitcoin to commodities
used for investment and consumption and the use of the metric has since expanded and even given
rise to models based on the ratio. Gold, the most resilient store of value through the ages, has the
highest stock-to-flow ratio, followed by bitcoin (today) and silver. Following the recent halving (May
2020), the gap between the gold and bitcoin ratio compressed. Bitcoin’s stock-to-flow will eclipse that
of gold following the next halving (2024).

Total Supply

120%

2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
2051

Annualized Expansion Rate

BITCOIN ANNUALIZED ISSUANCE RATE & TOTAL SUPPLY

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

Source: PlanB (March 2019), Coin Metrics (April 2020)
Note: A Goldman Sachs report from 2015 estimated that the last of gold from known
reserves will be mined by ~2035 and the last of platinum will be mined by ~2055. The last
bitcoin will be mined around 2140iii.

An anonymous personality, PlanB, also developed a valuation model based on the stock-to-flow
ratio. Proponents of the stock-to-flow model suggest that there is a statistically significant relationship
between bitcoin’s market value and its scarcity as measured by the ratio. Critics of the model contend
that the model does not capture demand, a more important driver of market value. While the
significance of the model is out of the scope of this piece, we explore why demand for a scarce digital
asset could riseiv.

Decentralized checks and balances
Bitcoin’s monetary policy was established when it was created. Its credibility is enforced in part by
decentralization and proof-of-work mining. Bitcoin has a leaderless network of decentralized full
nodes (computers running bitcoin software), in which every node stores the ledger of transactions
and performs transaction verification independently, checking that rules are being followed. Because
of this redundancy, there is no central point of failure. Full nodes that verify transactions are distinct
from miners who expend energy to process transactions and mint bitcoin. Unlike mining, transaction
verification does not require significant resources in the form of hardware or electricity. Thus, any

9

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

10

computer can join the distributed network to
store and verify bitcoin transactions. Today tens

“The nature of Bitcoin is such that

of thousands of nodes perform this function.

once version 0.1 was released, the

The two main types of transactions include

core design was set in stone for the

coinbase transactions that programmatically
issue new bitcoins per the supply schedule

rest of its lifetime.”
SATOSHI NAKAMOTO

and peer-to-peer payment or settlement
transactions between users of the network.
A transaction that does not follow consensus
rules (e.g. attempts to create new coins or attempts to double spend previously spent bitcoin) will be
rejected by the decentralized network of computers.
In addition to preventing transactions that don’t follow consensus rules, the level of decentralization
that exists in the bitcoin network protects core properties such as the 21 million fixed supply by making
it virtually impossible to change. No central party has sole discretion over bitcoin’s monetary policy.
Rather, such a change would require significant social coordination among stakeholders (e.g. users,
miners and those running full nodes). Most stakeholders believe bitcoin has value because of its digital
scarcity, resulting in negligible support for such a change.

Proof-of-work
Proof-of-work is an important design element that enforces bitcoin’s fixed supply by making
transactions irreversible. Proof-of-work provides evidence that a significant amount of computational
work has taken place, though verifying that work took place is quick and easy relative to the effort
and time it took to conduct the work. In order to create a block of transactions, miners perform
hash operations over and over again to find a solution to a computationally intensive cryptographic
problem, in a guess and check process known as proof-of-work. The process is computationally
intensive in that it requires the use of specialized hardware (with a high fixed upfront cost) and
electricity (an ongoing operating cost). These real-world sunk costs and the block reward that miners

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

11

are awarded for processing transactions serve as the incentive for miners to perform transaction
processing and do so honestly.
Additionally, proofof-work makes it

“One of the main value propositions for a store
of value is in being something that doesn’t
change qualitatively (aka immutability).”
JIMMY SONG, BITCOIN EDUCATOR

v

prohibitively difficult
and expensive for
a malicious actor to
rewrite or reverse
transactions,
making transactions
immutable, in effect.
The immutability of a

block of transactions rises as the number of confirmations increases – in other words, as the number
of subsequent blocks increases. A block that is buried under one hundred subsequent blocks is more
immutable than a block that is buried under ten blocks because undoing it would require reversing
one hundred blocks worth of transactions versus just ten. As a refresher, miners group transactions
together to create blocks. A transaction is akin to an entry in a database and a block is akin to a page
of entries in the database. Each block refers to the previous block such that blocks are linked together
to form a chain. Thus, it is not possible to rewrite a block that is buried under one hundred subsequent
blocks without rewriting each of those blocks.
Bitcoin’s monetary policy was established at the outset. Stakeholders have faith in the policy because
the network is decentralized. No centralized party can make changes to core properties and force
those changes upon stakeholders. Transactions are immutable, making it computationally and
economically impractical to attempt to undo transactions and rewrite the ledger.

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

12

DEMAND DRIVERS
Investors believe that the next wave of awareness and adoption could be driven by external factors
such as unprecedented levels of intervention by central banks and governments, record low interest
rates, increasing fiat money supply, deglobalization and the potential for ensuing inflation, all of which
have been accelerated by the pandemic and economic shutdown.
Longer-term tailwinds that could fuel adoption include the use of bitcoin to preserve wealth amidst
“slow and steady” inflation and the looming generational wealth transfer to millennials, who view
bitcoin more favorably than other demographics.

NEAR- TO MEDIUM- TERM CATALYST
Monetary and fiscal stimulus
To offset demand destruction resulting from the global shut down in response to the pandemic, central
banks and governments have responded with never-before-seen levels of monetary and fiscal stimulus

“The FOMC was very worried about disinflation when they cut down to 1% in the early 2000s.
Some even argue that this policy stance lead to reach-for-yield (RFY) even then, primarily
through the housing bubble but also pretty buoyant risky asset prices, etc.
Many commentators worried about QE-> debasement -> inflation. Yet as we now know,
banks did not loan out the huge increase in reserves created by central bank asset purchases
(that’s how money gets created in our fractional reserve system of course), amid weak
business/household loan demand, consistent in turn with the anemic recovery that
seems to follow asset price busts. There are [also] some structural forces
nudging CPI inflation that one could list.”
J. BENSON DURHAM AND ROBERTO PERLI, CORNERSTONE MACRO

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

13

to manage the impact of an economic downturn, stimulate the economy and placate markets. As many
as 285 stimulus measures have been announced in a matter of eight months including zero or near
zero interest rates, increasing money supply through unprecedented levels of quantitative easing and a
range of lending facilities.
Even before the world entered the current health and economic crises, investors were forecasting the
use of more direct forms of liquidity growth by central banks and governments to spur inflation that
has been stubbornly low for a variety of reasons.
Central banks and governments
have implemented expansionary

“In no small way, unconventional policy
measures are supposed to generate some

policies to counteract the
deflationary pressures created by

asset-price inflation by lowering risk aversion

global lockdowns. Time will tell

and ultimately increasing the flow of credit to

whether and how quickly the gradual

households and business.”

re-opening of the global economy

J. BENSON DURHAM AND ROBERTO PERLI, CORNERSTONE MACRO

will spur consumer spending, how
central banks and governments
will react and what the impact on
consumer price inflation will be.

The impact on demand for fixed supply assets is less clear if inflation or expectations of inflation fall.
However, the increase in money supply may translate to an increase in the price of risky or scarce
assets regardless.
If the combination of policy decisions succeeds in offsetting deflationary pressures and creates
inflation, or if inflation stays suppressed, but nominal yields stay low or go lower, investors may turn
to “an asset that maintains its real value – an asset that cannot be printed”vi to recalibrate a diversified
portfolio. Traditionally, in these situations, investors have turned to fixed supply assets such as real
estate, dividend yielding stocks, and precious metals. This time around, investors could turn to a new

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

14

type of fixed supply asset as protection
against potential inflation or low interest
rates, but with significant growth potential –
bitcoin.

“It’s really asymmetric. Bitcoin is a
once in a generation type trade.”
DAN MOREHEAD, PANTERA CAPITAL

Deglobalization
Globalization is one of the structural forces
that has historically kept the price of goods
and services low in the face of inflationary pressures. While globalization had been slowing following
the financial crisis (based on trade flows, globalization peaked in 2008), pandemic induced restrictions
and lockdowns have exposed the risk of reliance on global supply chains and have added momentum
to at least partial deglobalization. According to the EU’s internal market commissioner, Thierry Breton,
“The question posed by this crisis is that we may have gone too far in globalization.”vii The World
Trade Organization has forecasted a 13%
to 32% decline in world trade in 2020 due

“In a world that craves new safe

to the pandemic.viiI Deliberate actions by

assets, there may be a growing

governments and policymakers to restrict

role for bitcoin.”

trade and reduce dependence on global

PAUL TUDOR JONES, LORENZO GIORGIANNI,
TUDOR INVESTMENTSix

supply chains could further accelerate
deglobalization, placing incremental upward
pressure on the cost and price of goods
and services, lifting some of the downward
pressure on inflation from globalization.

Current interest in bitcoin’s store of value properties
Tudor Investment Corporation’s decision to allocate to bitcoin in the Tudor BVI fund is evidence
that unprecedented levels of monetary growth is driving institutional interest in bitcoin’s store of
value properties. Paul Tudor Jones, founder and Chief Investment Officer, and Lorenzo Giorgianni,

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

15

Head of Global Research articulated the rationale for investing in bitcoin in their May 2020 investor
letter, “The Great Monetary Inflation.” The Tudor Investments team scored financial assets, fiat cash,
gold and bitcoin based on four characteristics that define store of value assets – purchasing power,
trustworthiness, liquidity, portability. Bitcoin’s score was 60% of the score of financial assets, but
1/1200th of the market cap of financial assets and it was 66% of the score of gold, but 1/60th of the
market cap, concluding, “Something appears to be wrong here and my guess is that it’s the price of
Bitcoin.” While many have
expressed the same reasoning,

“You quietly over some period of time

this was seen as a watershed

accumulate a position and then just never look

moment, given the thesis

at it again and hope that that insurance under

and investment was from a

the mattress never has to come due. But, if it

traditional hedge fund manager/

does, it will protect you.”
CHAMATH PALIHAPITIYAx

legendary macro investor (Paul
Tudor Jones) and former Deputy
Director of the Strategy, Policy
and Review Department at the
IMF (Lorenzo Giorgianni)ix.

LONGER-TERM CATALYSTS
Long-term wealth preservation
A store of value asset isn’t important only in high inflation environments. Even “low and steady”
inflation erodes the purchasing power of the most stable fiat currencies over a long enough time
period. This drives people to invest in financial assets in order to preserve or grow their wealth over
longer timeframes. Proponents of the narrative that bitcoin is a potential store of value contend that
base demand will grow as more people recognize it as a long-term wealth preservation tool.

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

16

PURCHASING POWER OF THE U.S. DOLLAR
1200
1000
800
600
400
200

2018

2013

2008

2003

1998

1993

1988

1983

1978

1973

1968

1963

1958

1953

1948

1943

1938

1933

1928

1923

1918

1913

0

Source: St. Louis Fed, April 2020

Great wealth transfer
A report released by Coldwell Banker in October 2019 shared data around the transfer of $68 trillion in
wealth to millennials, estimated to be one of the most substantial transfers of wealth historically. The
study also found that there are almost 620,000 millennial millionaires in the United States, about 2%
of the population of millionaires in the U.S. The millennial demographic (those born between 1981 to
1996) is more open to novel, digitally native alternatives versus legacy products and services and more
comfortable holding new types of investments.
This open-mindedness has been shaped in part by the 2008 financial crisis. Entering the workforce
at such an inopportune time instilled a level of skepticism towards the traditional banking system.
According to WEF’s 2017 Global Shapers Survey, 45% of the 30,000 millennials surveyed said they
disagree with the statement that they trust banks to be fair and honest.xiii Edelman’s October 2018
survey of affluent millennials (those aged 24-38 with $50K in investable assets or $100K in individual or
joint income) found that 77% of affluent millennials believe “the whole financial system is designed to
favor the rich and powerful” and that “it’s just a matter of time before the bad behavior of the financial
industry leads us into another global financial crisis.”xiv

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

17

There is also evidence that the millennial demographic’s affinity to hold bitcoin relative to legacy stores
of value such as gold is high. According to Nate Geraci, president of investment advisor, ETF Store,
anecdotally, about 90% of their millennial clients said they prefer bitcoin to goldxv - “It’s a landslide.”
According to a November 2019 Millennials and the Future of Money report by Edelman, 63% of “crypto
users” said crypto is a better investment than gold in a volatile economy.xvi

CONCLUSION
Bitcoin’s inherent properties have given rise to the perspective that bitcoin has the potential to be a
store of value, with complementary and interdependent components – the decentralized settlement
network (Bitcoin) and its digitally scarce native asset (bitcoin). Equally important is the consideration
of demand for bitcoin’s unique features – there is no long-term value to create or store if there is no
sustained demand for these properties.
External forces that are accelerating
interest and investment in bitcoin include
unprecedented levels and exotic forms

“Bitcoin has enough critical mass
that it will be around for the long
haul.”

of monetary and fiscal stimulus globally
with unknown consequences. This is

NIC CARTER OF CASTLE ISLAND VENTURES AND

exacerbating the concerns that Bitcoin was

COIN METRICS

designed to address and is leading more
investors and users towards bitcoin as an
“insurance policy” that may provide protection against the unknown consequences. Simultaneously,
the massive transfer of wealth from the older generation to a younger demographic is a more gradual
but important long-term tailwind, as younger people view bitcoin more favorably. This is an important
catalyst for bitcoin adoption as they inherit and grow their wealth.
While bitcoin is not guaranteed to succeed as a store of value, should sustainable long-term demand
for the use case not materialize, the tailwinds mentioned above should drive incremental demand

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

for a novel asset with unique properties. Additionally, as we will examine in future parts in our bitcoin
investment thesis series, Bitcoin’s strength is that it has properties that allow it to serve multiple
functions, further hardening the likelihood of its success as measured by growth in value.

This content was created by Fidelity Digital Asset Services, LLC, a New York State–chartered, limited liability trust company
(NMLS ID 1773897). All rights reserved.
Fidelity Digital Asset Services, LLC, does not provide tax, legal, investment, or accounting advice. This material is not intended
to provide, and should not be relied on for, tax, legal, investment or accounting advice. Tax laws and regulations are complex
and subject to change. You should consult your own tax, legal, investment and accounting advisors before engaging in any
transaction. Digital assets are speculative and highly volatile, can become illiquid at any time, and are for investors with a high
risk tolerance. Investors in digital assets could lose the entire value of their investment.
Fidelity Digital Assets and the Fidelity Digital Assets logo are service marks of FMR LLC.
© 2020 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
937894.1.0

18

BITCOIN INVESTMENT THESIS

i

We refer to the Bitcoin network, protocol and system as a whole as “Bitcoin.” We refer to the system’s unit of account, BTC, as
“bitcoin.”

ii

Without overwhelming support from node operators, who have been loathe to provide it.

iii

Myra P. Saefong. “In 20 year, the world may run out of mineable gold.” March 2015. https://www.marketwatch.com/story/in20-years-the-world-may-run-out-of-minable-gold-2015-03-30

iv

PlanB. Modeling Bitcoin Value with Scarcity.” March 2019. https://medium.com/@100trillionUSD/modeling-bitcoins-valuewith-scarcity-91fa0fc03e25

v

Jimmy Song. “Why Bitcoin is Different.” April 2018. https://medium.com/@jimmysong/why-bitcoin-is-different-e17b813fd947

vi

Rick Rieder. “The monetary policy endgame.” September 2019. https://www.blackrockblog.com/2019/09/05/monetary-policyendgame/

vii

Douglas A. Irwin. “The pandemic adds to the deglobalization trend.” April 2020. https://www.piie.com/blogs/realtimeeconomic-issues-watch/pandemic-adds-momentum-deglobalization-trend

viii

World Trade Organization. “Trade set to plunge as COVID-19 pandemic upends global economy.” April 2020. https://www.
wto.org/english/news_e/pres20_e/pr855_e.htm

ix

Paul Tudor Jones, Lorenzo Giorgianni. “The Great Monetary Inflation.” May 2020 https://www.scribd.com/
document/460382154/May-2020-BVI-Letter-Macro-Outlook

x

Michael Sheetz. “Warren Buffett is ‘completely wrong and outdated’ on bitcoin, Chamath Palihapitiya says.” February 2020.
https://www.cnbc.com/2020/02/26/palihapitiya-warren-buffett-is-completely-wrong-outdated-on-bitcoin.html

xi

Coldwell Banker. “A Look at Wealth 2019: Millennial Millionaires.” October 2019. https://blog.coldwellbankerluxury.com/alook-at-wealth-millennial-millionaires/

xii

Michael Dimock. “Defining Generations: Where Millennials end and Generation Z Begins.” January 2019. https://www.
pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/01/17/where-millennials-end-and-generation-z-begins/

xiii

Kate Rooney. “After the crisis, a new generation puts its trust in tech over traditional banks.” September 2018. https://www.
cnbc.com/2018/09/14/a-new-generation-puts-its-trust-in-tech-over-traditional-banks.html

xiv

Edelman. “Millennials with Money.” October 2018. https://www.edelman.com/research/2018-millennials-with-money

xv

Bloomberg. “In the ETF Crosshairs: U.S-China Trade War, Bitcoin ETF Delay & Concealed ETF Structures.” May 2019. https://
www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2019-05-23/in-the-etf-crosshairs-u-s-china-trade-war-bitcoin-etf-delay-concealed-etfstructures-video

xvi

Edelman. “Millennials and the Future of Money.” November 2019. https://www.edelman.com/research/2019-millennials-withmoney

19

